---
layout: base
title: "About Me"
---

## About Me

I'm a **full stack web developer** with a passion for **usability** and data
transparency. I help make the audience more informed, productive, engaged, &
entertained.

Any software user interface worth its salt is an iceberg. The user sees only
the tip, while engineering has masked any underlying complexities with
simplicity. My expertise is delivering that end-to-end.

If it weren't for this iceberg problem, my programming might be a little more
focused. It's great to implement low-level algorithms. A Computer Science
degree gave me that. But I can't stand pigeonholing myself there, because of
the human factor. What does my invisible machine framework matter if nobody
uses it?

Or I might've been a designer. It's great to directly resonate with consumers.
But software needs to work & it needs to be maintainable.

Self-reliance. If a job's worth doing, it's worth doing yourself. I could
suffer being blocked by different teams. They're deep in their own work &
responsibilities though. They don't have the time and memory for all my
requests. Play nice as you can, there are always communication breakdowns. So,
why not figure things out myself, cut the red tape, and get things done? Who
accomplishes more: engineers always at the mercy of others, or ones who can
feed themselves anywhere?

This is my personal outlook. As with any extreme though, it's not always the
right answer. In others, I've seen the benefits of their code & project
ownership. They are determined to stay focused, not leave their area of
specialization, and make it the best damn module of the application. With
someone like me, you might get design-by-committee, as opposed to design by a
domain expert.

I say I'm a UX Engineer but I have a hand in it all. A jack of all trades.

### Usability Focus

I say UX specifically because it's my personal mission to make human-computer
interfaces more usable and informative. I grew up in the Internet age, thrilled
by what a computer could do for me. A familiar story for most techies.

However I'm *scarred* from being unable to share that thrill. In contrast to
me, for all my family and peers, computers did nothing but get in their way.
[Computers are too difficult, and it's no wonder most people remain
illiterate](http://studiotendra.com/2013/08/14/computers-are-both-too-difficult-and-people-are-computer-illiterate/).

The design of everyday things is often irresponsible and insulting. The
software industry can do better. Wherever I'm involved as a software engineer,
I aim to bring sensitivity to this.

Read my other overarching themes in [Credo](/posts/credo/).
